Add graphql file upload example (#11)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/investigations/file-upload-with-graphql.md

## Upload files with gqlgen 0.9.0 library

1. Use the following schema.graphql:
```graphql
# The `Upload` scalar type represents a multipart file upload.
# It is already implemented in gqlgen library, so we can use it straight away.
scalar Upload

input DocumentationInput {
  data: Upload!
}

type Mutation {
  storeDocumentation(in: DocumentationInput!): String
}

type Query {
  anything: String
}

```

2. Implement resolvers:
```go
type Resolver struct{}

func (r *Resolver) Mutation() MutationResolver {
	return &mutationResolver{r}
}
func (r *Resolver) Query() QueryResolver {
	return &queryResolver{r}
}

type mutationResolver struct{ *Resolver }

func (r *mutationResolver) StoreDocumentation(ctx context.Context, in DocumentationInput) (*string,error) {
	doc := Documentation{
		ID:string(rand.Int()),
		Data:in.Data,
	}

	b := bytes.NewBuffer(nil)
	io.Copy(b, doc.Data.File)
	out := b.String()
	return &out, nil
}

type queryResolver struct{ *Resolver }

func (r *queryResolver) Anything(ctx context.Context) (*string,error){
	return nil,nil
}
```

3. Configure the resolvers:

To make your server recognize that resolver, attach it inside the `main` function. \

> You can also set some additional parameters, such as `UploadMaxMemory` or `UploadMaxSize`.

Reviewer: This does not need to be n a separate line. The sentence could go to line 68.

# File upload with graphql

## Overview

> This document discuss the following:

Reviewer: I wouldn't use points in the overview. Please remove them and instead write the following:
```suggestion
This document discusses how to upload files using graphql and suggests how to handle large data objects.
```

1. Issue of uploading files with graphql.
2. Suggest and idea on handling large data objects.

> As vanilla graphql does not support uploading files, there are several workarounds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vanilla graphql does not support uploading files. However, you can use one of the following workarounds:
```

> - Multipart Request Spec (implemented in gqlgen library)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multipart Request Spec implemented in gqlgen library
```

- Base64 data encoding
- Middleware which handles file uploading

> ### File uploading with gqlgen 0.9.0 library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload files with gqlgen 0.9.0 library
```

Reviewer: After the heading and before the first step as an introductory sentence:
`To upload a file using gqlgen 0.9.0 library, follow these steps:`

> 1. Use the schema.graphql below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the following schema.graphql:

```graphql
# The `Upload` scalar type represents a multipart file upload.
# It is already implemented in gqlgen library, so we can use it straight away.
scalar Upload

input DocumentationInput {
  data: Upload!
}

type Mutation {
  storeDocumentation(in: DocumentationInput!): String
}

type Query {
  anything: String
}

```

> 2. Implement resolvers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Implement resolvers:
```

```go
type Resolver struct{}

func (r *Resolver) Mutation() MutationResolver {
	return &mutationResolver{r}
}
func (r *Resolver) Query() QueryResolver {
	return &queryResolver{r}
}

type mutationResolver struct{ *Resolver }

func (r *mutationResolver) StoreDocumentation(ctx context.Context, in DocumentationInput) (*string,error) {
	doc := Documentation{
		ID:string(rand.Int()),
		Data:in.Data,
	}

	b := bytes.NewBuffer(nil)
	io.Copy(b, doc.Data.File)
	out := b.String()
	return &out, nil
}

type queryResolver struct{ *Resolver }

func (r *queryResolver) Anything(ctx context.Context) (*string,error){
	return nil,nil
}
```

> 3. Set configuration of resolvers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Configure the resolvers:
```

> To make your server recognise that resolver, attach it inside `main` function. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make your server recognize that resolver, attach it inside the `main` function. \
```

> You can also set some parameters like `UploadMaxMemory` or `UploadMaxSize`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set some additional parameters, such as `UploadMaxMemory` or `UploadMaxSize`.
```

```go
	exec := fileupload.NewExecutableSchema(fileupload.Config{Resolvers: &fileupload.Resolver{}})

	var mb int64 = 1 << 20
	uploadMaxMemory := handler.UploadMaxMemory(32 * mb)
	uploadMaxSize := handler.UploadMaxSize(50 * mb)

	http.Handle("/query", handler.GraphQL(exec, uploadMaxMemory, uploadMaxSize))
```

> 4. Test request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Test your request:
```

> The curl request accepts a `FILEPATH` variable with the path to file which you want to send with the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The curl request accepts a `FILEPATH` variable with the path to the file which you want to send with the request.
```

```bash
curl localhost:8080/query \
  -F operations='{ "query": "mutation ($file: Upload!) { storeDocumentation(in: {data: $file}) }", "variables": { "file": null } }' \
  -F map='{ "0": ["variables.file"] }' \
  -F 0=@${FILEPATH}
```

> For more examples check reference links section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more examples of ..., go to the reference links section.
```
Please add what kind of examples are these. Other ways to upload files?

> ### Improvement proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Improvement proposal
```

> We should support multiple ways of uploading large amounts of data (for example documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should support multiple ways of uploading large amounts of data, such as documentation.
```

> The `Clob` type which is in to be defined state, could look like that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Clob` type, which is to be defined, could look as follows:
```

```graphql
type Clob {
  type: UploadType!  
  content: String
  file: Upload
}
```

```graphql
enum UploadType {
  FILE
  STRING
}
```

That approach gives the end-user more flexibility on how to upload the data.

> #### Reference links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reference links
```

> - [Article about file upload possibilities](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-manage-file-uploads-in-graphql-mutations-using-apollo-graphene-b48ed6a6498c)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [An article about file upload possibilities](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-manage-file-uploads-in-graphql-mutations-using-apollo-graphene-b48ed6a6498c)
```

# File upload with graphql

## Overview

This document discuss the issue of uploading files with graphql. \
As vanilla graphql does not support uploading files, there are several workarounds

### File uploading with gqlgen 0.9.0 library
<details>
<summary>Example of schema.graphql</summary>
<p>

```graphql
# The `Upload` scalar type represents a multipart file upload.
# It is already implemented in gqlgen library, so we can use it straight away.
scalar Upload

type Documentation {
  id: ID!

>   data: Upload!

Reviewer 2: Are you sure `Upload` scalar can be a field of queryable type? If so, maybe we should add query that returns this type?

}

input DocumentationInput {
  data: Upload!
}

type Mutation {
  storeDocumentation(in: DocumentationInput!): String
}

type Query {
  anything: String
}

```
</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Implementation of resolvers</summary>
<p>

```go
type Resolver struct{}

func (r *Resolver) Mutation() MutationResolver {
	return &mutationResolver{r}
}
func (r *Resolver) Query() QueryResolver {
	return &queryResolver{r}
}

type mutationResolver struct{ *Resolver }

func (r *mutationResolver) StoreDocumentation(ctx context.Context, in DocumentationInput) (*string,error) {
	doc := Documentation{
		ID:string(rand.Int()),
		Data:in.Data,
	}

	b := bytes.NewBuffer(nil)
	io.Copy(b, doc.Data.File)
	out := b.String()
	return &out, nil
}

type queryResolver struct{ *Resolver }

> func (r *Resolver) Anything(ctx context.Context) (*string,error){

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the receiver type of this method be `*queryResolver`?

	return nil,nil
}
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> Resolver configuration </summary>
<p>

To make your server recognise that resolver, attach it inside `main` function. \
You can also set some parameters like `UploadMaxMemory` or `UploadMaxSize`.

```go

> 	exec := go_graphql_demo.NewExecutableSchema(go_graphql_demo.Config{Resolvers: &go_graphql_demo.Resolver{}})

Reviewer 2: I think a package name like `upload` or `fileupload` would look better here. :)

	var mb int64 = 1 << 20
	uploadMaxMemory := handler.UploadMaxMemory(32 * mb)
	uploadMaxSize := handler.UploadMaxSize(50 * mb)

	http.Handle("/query", handler.GraphQL(exec, uploadMaxMemory, uploadMaxSize))
```

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary> Test request </summary>
<p>

The curl request accepts a `FILEPATH` variable with the path to file which you want to send with the request
```bash
curl localhost:8080/query \
  -F operations='{ "query": "mutation ($file: Upload!) { storeDocumentation(in: {data: $file}) }", "variables": { "file": null } }' \
  -F map='{ "0": ["variables.file"] }' \
  -F 0=@${FILEPATH}
```

</p>
</details>

For more examples check reference links section.

### Improvement proposal

We should support multiple ways of uploading large amounts of data (for example documentation).
The `Clob` type which is in to be defined state, could look like that:

```graphql

> type Clob {

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could also add a required enum to this type that will specify the upload method that user wants to use?
